Edits after Angela's comments (#4)
greenelab/nature_news_manuscript: content/04.results.md

Again, last authors were used as the primary comparator.
The author metadata of research-related _Nature_ articles from 2005 to 2020 totaled 13,414 articles.
To more broadly represent the overall science authorship, we also separately analyzed 36,000 randomly selected _Springer_-published articles from English language journals over the same time.
It should be noted that extracted quotes may come from multiple types of persons, such as academic scientists, clinicians, the broader scientific community, politicians, and more.
However, through anecdotal observation we believe that most sources come from either academic scientists or those actively involved in science.
The extracted author affiliations from both data sources were mapped to a country using OpenStreetMap.
Similarly, author names were uniformly processed and then used to predict both gender and name origin.

The top three observed article frequencies are "Research" (including "Letters" and "Articles"), "News", and "News-Feature".
Since _Nature_ merged "Letters" and "Research" articles in 2019, we combined them in our analysis.

> We observed significant variability in the number of _Nature_ news-articles by type between 2005 and 2020 (Figure {@fig:fig1}b).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We observed substantial variability in the number of _Nature_ news-articles by type between 2005 and 2020 (Figure {@fig:fig1}b).
```

Reviewer: i think nature's style guide reserves the word "significance" for something with a statistical test - iirc

The changing classification of article types may explain temporal changes in news articles.
Over time, the frequency of "News" articles decreased; however, more specific news-related article types increased, including the introduction of the new categories "Career-feature", "Toolbox", and "Career-Column".

### Quoted Speakers and Primary Research Authors in _Nature_ are More Often Male

![

> **Male bias is observed in news quotes but is dependent on article type**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Males are overrepresented in news quotes, but this depends on the article type.**
```
Maybe something like this to avoid using the word bias in the results section?

Using our hand-annotated prediction as ground truth, we correctly predicted a total of 42/55 female and 157/162 male names within the benchmark articles.
We found that the gender prediction had an accuracy of 0.914, with a Kappa statistic of 0.767 (Figure {@fig:suppfig1}a).
After establishing a reasonable accuracy for gender prediction, we determined the rate of gendered quotes within articles.
!-->

We first examined the number of quotes identified within each type of news-related article (Figure {@fig:fig2}b), totaling 119,998 quotes with 109,723 of them containing a gender prediction for the speaker.
Quote frequencies vary by article type.
We compared the number of quotes from predicted males to the number of predicted male first and last authors published in _Nature_.
As denoted by the red line, we found that the predicted genders of primary research authors and source-quotes were far from gender parity (Figure {@fig:fig2}c).
Additionally, we observed a difference in the predicted genders between first and last authors, with the last authors more frequently predicted to be male.

> To extend our analysis to primary research authors more broadly, we also examined a random selection of authors from English language journals published by _Springer_ (Figure {@fig:suppfig2}a). The predicted gender gap between first and last authors was larger in our selection of _Springer_ articles; however, both first and last authors were predicted to be closer to parity than for _Nature_ authors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To extend our analysis to primary research authors more broadly, we also examined a random selection of authors from English language journals published by _Springer_ (Figure {@fig:suppfig2}a).
The predicted gender gap between first and last authors was larger in our selection of _Springer_ articles; however, both first and last authors were predicted to be closer to parity than for _Nature_ authors.
```

The gender proportions of authorship were relatively stable over time for both _Nature_ and _Springer_ articles.
In contrast, we found that the rate of quotes predicted to be from males significantly decreased over time.
In 2005, the fraction of quotes predicted to be from males was 86.84% (5,552/6,391) whereas in 2020 it was 68.5% (3,494/5,098).
Indeed, the fraction of quotes from predicted males was initially higher than the fraction of predicted male last authors, then slowly decreased until it was below the predicted male first and last authorship rates in 2020.
We explored the possible reasons for this decrease.
First, we looked at the authorship position of speakers who were quoted about their published paper (Figure {@fig:fig2}d).
We identified 8,064 quotes with an associated citation (3,382 first author and 4,682 last author quotes).
We found that quotes were slightly biased towards last authors from 2005 to 2020, but because the fraction of predicted male last authors remained stable over time both for _Nature_ and the selection of _Springer_ articles, this bias likely does not explain the downward trend.
We then analyzed the breakdown of gendered quotes by article type.

> Interestingly, one article type, "Career-Feature", achieved gender parity in its quotes (Figure {@fig:fig2}e and Figure {@fig:suppfig2}b). In this article type, we identified a total of 1,454 quotes (759 predicted female and 695 predicted male quotes), which substantially pulled the overall quote gender ratio closer to parity from 2018 onward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Interestingly, one article type, "Career-Feature", achieved gender parity in its quotes (Figure {@fig:fig2}e and Figure {@fig:suppfig2}b).
In this article type, we identified a total of 1,454 quotes (759 predicted female and 695 predicted male quotes), which substantially pulled the overall quote gender ratio closer to parity from 2018 onward.
```

### Celtic English Names are over enriched in cited and quoted persons, while East Asian Names are under enriched

![

> **Analysis of Quotes and Citations found Over-representation of Celtic/English and under-representation of East Asian names**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Analysis of Quotes and Citations found Over-representation of Celtic/English and under-representation of East Asian names.**
```

Similarly, Panels D and E depict two possible trend lines, comparing name origins of either quoted or mentioned people against name origins of last authors of _Nature_ research articles.
<!-- REMOVE CONCLUSION FROM CAPTION We found that Celtic/English name origins are overrepresented in quotes, and to a smaller degree in citations, when compared to name origins of last authors.
Furthermore, East Asian name origins are underrepresented in quotes and citations when compared to name origins of last authors, however it was much particularly for citations of non-journalist-written articles versus journalist-written articles.
Additional information for the cited, quoted, and mentioned persons are provided in (Figure {@fig:suppfig3} and {@fig:suppfig4}).
Furthermore, we recapitulate this finding when comparing against an additional background of _Springer_ published last authors (Figure {@fig:suppfig3}) -->.
](https://github.com/nrosed/nature_news_disparities/raw/main/figure_notebooks/tmp_files/fig3_tmp/fig3_main.png "Figure 3"){#fig:fig3 width=6in}

> To identify possible biases in name origin, we again used the extracted names of quoted speakers and last authors published in _Nature_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To identify possible disparities with respect to name origin, we again used the extracted names of quoted speakers and last authors published in _Nature_.
```

In both journalist- and scientist-written articles, we found that most cited name origins were Celtic/English or European, both with a bootstrapped estimated citation rate between 24.8-43.0% (Figure {@fig:suppfig3}b,c).
East Asian name origins are the third highest proportion of cited names, with a bootstrapped estimated citation rate between 5.7-24.8%.
All other name origins individually account for less than 9% of total cited authors. 

We determined how these distributions compare to the composition of the last authors in _Nature_, by examining the top three most frequent name origins (Figure {@fig:fig3}b,c).
We found a slight over-enrichment for Celtic/English names and a small under-enrichment for East Asian names in scientist-written and journalist-written articles when compared to the composition of last authors in _Nature_ (Figure {@fig:fig3}b, c).
Interestingly, the under-enrichment for East Asian names in journalist-written articles was only from 2005 to 2009.
Furthermore, we found no significant difference for European or other name origins (Figure {@fig:suppfig4}a).

> However, we did observe that European name origins were more highly cited in articles written by scientists than journalists (Figure {@fig:suppfig4}4b,c).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, we did observe that articles in which the last author had European name origins were more highly cited in articles written by scientists than journalists (Figure {@fig:suppfig4}4b,c).
```
I think I got this right?
